Next we'll consider queries
where two tables are used.
Let's consider the query,
find the beers liked by drinkers who
frequent The Great American Bar.
For this query, we need
the relation's Frequents and Likes.
Now look at the scheme of these
relations in the light blue box.
They have a common
attribute called drinker.
So if we use the attribute drinker,
we need to tell the system
which one we are referring to.
Now look at the SQL query, the FROM clause
in the query has these two relations.
To handle a common attribute name issue,
we need to give nicknames,
aliases to these relations.
Therefore in the FROM clause we say,
Likes has the alias L and
Frequents has the alias F.
Since we want to find beers like before,
we use a SELECT DISTINCT clause for beer.
As we saw before, using SELECT DISTINCT
avoids duplicates in the result.
The WHERE clause has two
kinds of conditions,
the first kind is
a single table condition.
In this case, bar = The Great American Bar
on the Frequents relation.
The second kind is a joined condition
which says that the drinker's attribute in
the frequency relation is the same as the
drinker's attribute of the Likes relation.
We encode this in SQL in the last
line of the query using aliases.
Why did we not say L.beer in the SELECT
clause or F.bar in the first condition?
We could have,
the query would have been equally right.
But we are using a shortcut because we
know that these attributes are unique
already in the query.
Now let's look at the query again,
this time from the viewpoint
of evaluating the query.
There are many ways to evaluate the query,
but
the way it's most likely
to be evaluated is this.
The query will first look at the tables
that have single table conditions.
So it would perform a select operation
on the Frequents table to match
the records of the condition
that The Great American Bar
equal to The Great American Bar.
Why is this strategy good?
It's because the selection operative
reduces the number of triples to consider.
Thus, if there are thousand
triples in the relation frequents,
maybe 60 of them matches the desired bar.
So in the next step, we have to deal with
a fewer number of records than thousand.
All right, the next step will
be a Join with a Likes relation.
A Join requires two relations
in a Join condition,
the Join condition comes from the query.
The first relation shown with
an underscore symbol here
is a result of the previous operation.
Another way of saying this
is that the result of
the selection is piped
into the Join operation.
That means we do not create
an intermediate table from
the result of the selection.
The results are directly supplied to the
next operator, which in this case is Join.
Now the result of the Join operator is an
intermediate structure with columns beer
from Likes relation and
the drinker from the Frequents
relation that we've processed.
This intermediate set of triples is
piped to the Project operation that
picks up the beer column.
Now we need to process
the DISTINCT clause for
Deduplicate elimination,
which then goes to the Output.
We have already seen how the select
project queries on single tables
are evaluated when the tables
are partitioned across several machines.
We'll now see how we process Join
queries in the same setting.
For our case, consider that the Likes and
Frequents tables are on
two different machines.
In the first part of the query,
the selection happens on the machine
with the Frequents table.
The output of the query is a smaller
table with the same scheme as Frequents,
that is with drinkers and bars.
Now we define an operation
called Semijoin,
in which we need to move data
from one machine to another.
The goal of the Semijoin operation is
to reduce the cost of data movement.
That is to move data from
the machine which has
the Frequents data to
the machine with the Likes data.
The cost is reduced if we ship less data.
The way to it is to first find which
data the join operation actually needs.
Clearly, it needs only the drinkers
column and not the bars column.
So the drinkers column is projected out,
then
just this column is transmitted
to the second machine.
Finally, the join is performed by looking
at the values in the Likes column
that only matches the values
in the shipped data.
That means only the data from Likes that
matches the drinkers that are chosen.
These are then the join results which
would go to the output of the operation.
Now here you can see the Semijoin
operation graphically.
The red table on the left is the output
of the selection operations on the left.
The white table on the right
is the table to be joined to.
Since we need only the Drinkers column,
it is projected to create
a one-column relation.
Notice that the red table has two entries
for Pete, who frequented two bars.
But the output of the project
is condensed in the yellow table
to just show the Drinkers,
where Pete appears only once.
For those of you with
a background in computer science,
this can be done using a hash
map like data structure.
This one-column table is now shipped
to Site2, which has the Likes relation.
Now at Site2, the Shipped relation
is used to find matches from
the Drinkers column and
it finds only one match called Sally.
So the corresponding result triples,
in this case,
only one triple is produced
at the end of this operation.
Now, the original table and
the matching table are shipped
to the last of the operation
to finish the Join operation.
And more efficient version of
this is shown in the next slide.
In this version, the first two
steps this and that are the same.
Then the result of the reduce
is also shipped to Site1 to find
the matches from the red relation.
Another reduce operation
is performed on Site1 now
to get the matching records
on the red relation.
Finally, these two reduced
relations are shipped to
the site where the final join happens.
And all of this may seem
like a lot of detail.
Let me repeat something I've said before.
If we have a system like DB2 or Spark SQL
that implements multi-site joins, it
will perform this kind of operation under
the hood, you don't have to know them.
However, if we were to implement
a similar operation and all that you have
is Hadoop, you may end up implementing
this kind of algorithm yourself.